"Incorporating PKWARE Proprietary Technology into Your Product"
"T4MV" for TargetFour
"ZPIT"        beLong      extra-field signature
"extra" block.
"zip64 end of central directory record"
'Refer to the section in this document entitled  "Incorporating
** Refer to the section on Strong Encryption Specification
*** Certificate encryption using non-OAEP key wrapping is the
+ Files compressed using PPMd MUST set the version
- uncompressed
---  ------   -----------------   --------    --------    ------
----          ----------------
---- ---- ----  ---- ---- ------  ---- ---- --------  ---- ---- --------
---- ---- ------  ---- ---- -------  ---- ---- -------  ---- ---- ---------
-----                 ----       -----------
-----         ----        -----------
-----       ----          -----------
-----      ----       -----------
-----     ----       -----------
-----     ----      -----------
-----     ----     -----------
------         ---------
------       -----
-------       ------------------                       ----------
--------     -----
---------
---------   ----             ---------   ----
-----------
------------
-------------
--------------
---------------
----------------
-----------------
------------------
------------------             ---------------------------
--------------------
---------------------
----------------------
-----------------------
------------------------
-------------------------
--------------------------
---------------------------
------------------------------
---------------------------------
----------------------------------
-----------------------------------
------------------------------------
-------------------------------------
--------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------
-Added OS X to Version Made By values
-Added additional "Extra Field"
-Added option for Unicode filename
-Clarifications and typographical
-Clarifications for consistent use
-Clarified size field on
-Decryption Header:
-Documentation on certificate storage
-Documented InfoZIP "Extra Field"
-Expanded list of supported compression
-Expanded list of supported encryption
-Expanded list of supported hash algorithms
-Z390   Extra Field:
.
.ZIP archive.
.ZIP file comment length        2 bytes
.ZIP file name given to the archive.
0             Use for auto detection
0 - 143    8                 0 - 31      5
0 - 15: Represent bit lengths of 0 - 15
0 - restarts model from scratch - default
000A     PDS Directory Block Allocation      3 bytes Big Endian binary value
000B     NonVSAM Volume List                 variable
000C     UNIT Reference                      Retired with PKZIP 5.0 +
000D     DF/SMS Management Class             8 bytes EBCDIC Text Value
000E     DF/SMS Storage Class                8 bytes EBCDIC Text Value
000F     DF/SMS Data Class                   8 bytes EBCDIC Text Value
001A     VSAM KSDS Index Name                1-44 bytes EBCDIC text string
001B     VSAM Catalog Name                   1-44 bytes EBCDIC text string
001C     VSAM Data Space Type                9 bytes EBCDIC text string
001D     VSAM Data Space Primary             9 bytes EBCDIC num_value left-justified
001E     VSAM Data Space Secondary           9 bytes EBCDIC num_value left-justified
001F     VSAM Data Volume List               variable EBCDIC text list of 6-character Volume IDs
002A     VSAM  WRITECHK  Flag                1 byte flag
002D     VSAM Index Space Type               9 bytes EBCDIC text string
002E     VSAM Index Space Primary            9 bytes EBCDIC num_value left-justified
002F     VSAM Index Space Secondary          9 bytes EBCDIC num_value left-justified
003A     Reserved
003B     Reserved
003C     Reserved
003D     Reserved
003E     Reserved
003F     Reserved
004A     Reserved
004B     Reserved
004C     Reserved
004D     Reserved
004E     Reserved
004F     Reserved
005A     PDS LMOD EP Rec #                   4 bytes  Big Endian
005B     Reserved
005C     Length of the records in the file   2 bytes
005C     Max Length of records               2 bytes  Big Endian
005D     PDSE Flag                           1 byte flag
005E     Reserved
005F     Reserved
0x000F - reserved for future use
0x000a        NTFS
0x000c        OpenVMS
0x000d        UNIX
0x000e        Reserved for file stream and fork descriptors
0x000f        Patch Descriptor
0x01 = 1 code  of 2 bits long
0x13 = 2 codes of 4 bits long
0x334d        Info-ZIP Macintosh
0x42 = 5 codes of 3 bits long
0x470f        MVS
0x554e        Xceed unicode extra field
0x756e        ASi UNIX
0xFFFF - Unknown algorithm
0xa220        Microsoft Open Packaging Growth Hint
0xa220        Short       tag for this extra block type
0xfd4a        SMS/QDOS
1             Treat as a self-patch
1 - Amiga                     2 - OpenVMS
1 - The file is Shrunk
1 - cut off model - decreases performance by as much as 2x
1) Initialize the three 32-bit keys with the password.
1.0 - Default value
1.0 Introduction
1.1 - File is a volume label
1.1 Purpose
1.2 Scope
1.2.1 ZIP is one of the most widely used compressed file formats. It is
1.3 Trademarks
1.4 Permitted Use
1.4.2 Use of the content of this document within other publications is
1.4.3 Certain technological components provided in this document are the
1.5 Contacting PKWARE
1.5.2 Information about this format and copies of this document are publicly
1.6 Disclaimer
1.6.1 Although PKWARE will attempt to supply current and accurate
10.0 Incorporating PKWARE Proprietary Technology into Your Product
10.1 The Use or Implementation in a product of APPNOTE technological
10.2 Additional information regarding PKWARE proprietray technology is
11 - Reserved by PKWARE
11.0 Acknowledgements
12 - File is compressed using BZIP2 algorithm
12.  Device entries will have eight bytes stored as two 4
12.0 References
13 - Acorn Risc               14 - VFAT
13 - Reserved by PKWARE
14-15         RESERVED
144 - 255    9
15 - Reserved by PKWARE
15 - alternate MVS            16 - BeOS
16 - Reserved by PKWARE
16-31         RESERVED
16: Copy the previous bit length 3 - 6 times.
17 - Reserved by PKWARE
1:  if C is non-zero then
2 - The file is Reduced with compression factor 1
2 - freeze context tree - not recommended
2)  Generate the Shannon-Fano trees:
2-3           RESERVED
2.0 - File is compressed using Deflate compression
2.0 - File is encrypted using traditional PKWARE encryption
2.0 Revisions
2.1 Document Status
2.1.2 Versions of this document having a STATUS of FINAL are
2.2 Change Log
2.5 - File is compressed using PKWARE DCL Implode
2.7 - File is a patch data set
256 - 279    7
262   0     8     270   2   23-26    278   4   83-98
280 - 287    8
29 codes represent copy lengths of 3 thru 258.  There are up to 30
2:  let Len <- Len + C
3 - The file is Reduced with compression factor 2
3 - UNIX                      4 - VM/CMS
3 Shannon-Fano trees were used to encode the
3) Read and decrypt the compressed data stream using the
3.0 Notations
3.1 Use of the term MUST or SHALL indicates a required element.
3.2 MAY NOT or SHALL NOT indicates an element is prohibited from use.
3.3 SHOULD indicates a RECOMMENDED element.
3.4 SHOULD NOT indicates an element NOT RECOMMENDED for use.
3.5 MAY indicates an OPTIONAL element.
32 - 448 bits
32 to 448 bits.  Block size is 64 bits.  Implementations should use 16
3DES 112 bit and 168 bit
4 - The file is Reduced with compression factor 3
4)  Restore the order of Shannon-Fano codes as originally stored
4.0 ZIP Files
4.1 What is a ZIP file
4.1.1 ZIP files MAY be identified by the standard .ZIP file extension
4.1.10 Extensibility is provided for platform or application specific
4.1.11 Common uses for ZIP MAY also include the use of manifest files.
4.1.12 ZIP files MAY be placed within other ZIP files.
4.1.2 ZIP files SHOULD contain at least one file and MAY contain
4.1.3 Data compression MAY be used to reduce the size of files
4.1.4 Data encryption MAY be used to protect files within a ZIP file.
4.1.5 Data integrity MUST be provided for each file using CRC32.
4.1.6 Additional data integrity MAY be included through the use of
4.1.7 Files MAY be placed within a ZIP file uncompressed or stored.
4.2 ZIP Metadata
4.2.1 ZIP files are identified by metadata consisting of defined record types
4.3 General Format of a .ZIP file
4.3.1 A ZIP file MUST contain an "end of central directory record". A ZIP
4.3.10  Archive decryption header:
4.3.10.1 The Archive Decryption Header is introduced in version 6.2
4.3.10.2 The encrypted data segment SHALL consist of the Archive
4.3.11  Archive extra data record:
4.3.11.1 The Archive Extra Data Record is introduced in version 6.2
4.3.11.2 The size of this data record SHALL be included in the
4.3.12  Central directory structure:
4.3.13 Digital signature:
4.3.14  Zip64 end of central directory record
4.3.14.1 The value stored into the "size of zip64 end of central
4.3.14.2 The above record structure defines Version 1 of the
4.3.14.3 Special purpose data MAY reside in the zip64 extensible
4.3.14.4 Multiple special purpose data blocks MAY be present.
4.3.15 Zip64 end of central directory locator
4.3.16  End of central directory record:
4.3.2 Each file placed into a ZIP file MUST be preceeded by  a "local
4.3.3 Files MAY be stored in arbitrary order within a ZIP file.  A ZIP
4.3.5 File data MAY be followed by a "data descriptor" for the file.  Data
4.3.6 Overall .ZIP file format:
4.3.7  Local file header:
4.3.8  File data
4.3.9  Data descriptor:
4.3.9.1 This descriptor MUST exist if bit 3 of the general
4.3.9.5 An extensible data descriptor will be released in a
4.4  Explanation of fields
4.4.1 General notes on fields
4.4.1.1  All fields unless otherwise noted are unsigned and stored
4.4.1.3  The entries in the central directory may not necessarily
4.4.1.4  If one of the fields in the end of central directory
4.4.1.5  The end of central directory record and the Zip64 end
4.4.17.2 If using the Central Directory Encryption Feature and
4.4.2.1 The upper byte indicates the compatibility of the file
4.4.2.2 The current mappings are:
4.4.2.3 The lower byte indicates the ZIP specification version
4.4.20 number of the disk with the start of the central
4.4.21 total number of entries in the central dir on
4.4.24 offset of start of central directory with respect to
4.4.3.1 The minimum supported ZIP specification version needed
4.4.3.2 Current minimum feature versions are as defined below:
4.4.3.3 Notes on version needed to extract
4.5 - File uses ZIP64 format extensions
4.5 Extensible data fields
4.5.1 In order to allow different programs and different types
4.5.2 The current Header ID mappings defined by PKWARE are:
4.5.6.2. No word alignment or padding is performed.
4.5.6.3. A well-behaved PKZIP/OpenVMS program should never produce
4.5.8.1 The following is the layout of the Patch Descriptor
4.5.8.2 Actions and reactions
4.5.8.2.1 Actions
4.5.8.2.2 Reactions
4.6 - File is compressed using BZIP2 compression*
4.6 Third Party Mappings
4.6.1 Third party mappings commonly used are:
4.6.2 Third-party Extra Fields must include a Header ID using
4.6.3 In case two different programs should appropriate the same
4.7 Manifest Files
4.7.1 Applications using ZIP files may have a need for additional
4.7.2 A manifest file is a file created for the application process
4.7.3 Manifest files may be compressed or encrypted as needed for
400B     IFS code page                       2 bytes
400C     IFS Creation Time                   4 bytes
400D     IFS Access Time                     4 bytes
400E     IFS Modification time               4 bytes
5 - Atari ST                  6 - OS/2 H.P.F.S.
5 - The file is Reduced with compression factor 4
5.0 - File is encrypted using 3DES
5.0 - File is encrypted using DES
5.0 - File is encrypted using RC4 encryption
5.0 - File is encrypted using original RC2 encryption
5.0 Explanation of compression methods
5.1 - File is encrypted using AES encryption
5.1 - File is encrypted using corrected RC2 encryption**
5.1 UnShrinking - Method 1
5.1.1 Shrinking is a Dynamic Ziv-Lempel-Welch compression algorithm
5.10 PPMd - Method 98
5.10.1 PPMd is a data compression algorithm developed by Dmitry Shkarin
5.10.2 Support for PPMd within the ZIP format currently is provided only
5.10.3 Parameters needed to control the algorithm are stored in the two
5.10.4 An example for packing these fields into the 2 byte storage field is
5.2 - File is encrypted using corrected RC2-64 encryption**
5.2 Expanding - Methods 2-5
5.2.1 The Reducing algorithm is actually a combination of two
5.2.2 The probabilistic compression stores an array of 'follower
5.2.5 The decompressed stream from above can then be expanded to
5.3 Imploding - Method 6
5.3.1 The Imploding algorithm is actually a combination of two
5.3.2 The Imploding algorithm can use a 4K or 8K sliding dictionary
5.3.3 The Shannon-Fano trees are stored at the start of the
5.3.5 The Length Shannon-Fano tree is used to compress the Length
5.3.6 The Distance Shannon-Fano tree is used to compress the Distance
5.3.7 The Shannon-Fano trees themselves are stored in a compressed
5.3.8 The Shannon-Fano codes can be constructed from the bit lengths
5.3.9 The compressed data stream begins immediately after the
5.4 Tokenizing - Method 7
5.4.1 This method is not used by PKZIP.
5.5 Deflating - Method 8
5.5.1 The Deflate algorithm is similar to the Implode algorithm using
5.5.2 The compressed data is stored in blocks with a header describing
5.5.3 Expanding Huffman Codes
5.5.4 The compressed data stream begins immediately after the
5.6 Enhanced Deflating - Method 9
5.6.1 The Enhanced Deflating algorithm is similar to Deflate but uses
5.7 BZIP2 - Method 12
5.7.1 BZIP2 is an open-source data compression algorithm developed by
5.8 LZMA - Method 14
5.8.2 The Compression method field within the ZIP Local and Central
5.8.3 The Version needed to extract field within the ZIP Local and
5.8.4 File data compressed using the LZMA algorithm must be placed
5.8.5 The encryption header and data descriptor records may
5.8.6 The LZMA Compressed Data will be stored as provided by the
5.8.7 The LZMA Properties Header will store specific data required
5.8.8 Storage fields for the property information within the LZMA
5.8.8.1 LZMA Version Information - this field identifies which version
5.8.8.2 LZMA Properties Size - this field defines the size of the
5.8.8.3 LZMA Property Data - this variable sized field records the
5.8.8.4 The layout of the "LZMA Properties Data" field is a function of
5.9 WavPack - Method 97
5.9.1 Information describing the use of compression method 97 is
5.9.2 WavPack data for a file begins immediately after the end of the
5.9.3 An implementation note for storing digital sample data when using
50 and you MUST also set bit 0.  If AES encryption
6 - The file is Imploded
6-7           RESERVED
6.0  Traditional PKWARE Encryption
6.0.1 The following information discusses the decryption steps
6.1 - File is encrypted using non-OAEP key wrapping***
6.1 Traditional PKWARE Decryption
6.1.1 PKWARE is grateful to Mr. Roger Schlafly for his expert
6.1.2 PKZIP encrypts the compressed data stream.  Encrypted files
6.1.3 Each encrypted file has an extra 12 bytes stored at the start
6.1.4 The following are the basic steps required to decrypt a file:
6.1.5 Initializing the encryption keys
6.1.6 Decrypting the encryption header
6.1.7 Decrypting the compressed data stream
6.2 - Central directory encryption
6.2 in support of the ZIP64 large file feature. The
6.3 - File is compressed using LZMA
6.3 - File is compressed using PPMd+
6.3 - File is encrypted using Blowfish
6.3 - File is encrypted using Twofish
7 - Macintosh                 8 - Z-System
7 - Reserved for Tokenizing compression algorithm
7.0 Strong Encryption Specification
7.0.1 Portions of the Strong Encryption technology defined in this
7.1 Strong Encryption Overview
7.1.1 Version 5.x of this specification introduced support for strong
7.1.10 Older ZIP compatible programs not familiar with the Central Directory
7.1.11 This strong encryption feature specification is intended to provide for
7.1.12 Encryption provides data confidentiality and privacy.  It is
7.1.2 Password based encryption is the most common form of encryption
7.1.3 Most standard encryption algorithms are supported with this
7.1.4 The algorithms introduced in Version 5.0 of this specification
7.1.5 Version 6.1 introduces encryption data changes to support
7.1.6 Version 6.2 introduces support for encrypting metadata by compressing
7.1.7 Version 6.3 introduces support for encrypting data using the Blowfish
7.1.8 Central Directory Encryption provides greater protection against
7.1.9 Extra Field records that may contain information about a file that should
7.2 Single Password Symmetric Encryption Method
7.2.1 The Single Password Symmetric Encryption Method using strong
7.2.2 General Purpose Bits - Bits 0 and 6 of the General Purpose bit
7.2.3.1 Format - the data format identifier for this record.  The only
7.2.3.2 AlgId - integer identifier of the encryption algorithm from the
7.2.3.3 Bitlen - Explicit bit length of key
7.2.3.4 Flags - Processing flags needed for decryption
7.2.4 Decryption header record preceding compressed file data.
7.2.4.1 IVData - The size of the IV should match the algorithm block size.
7.2.4.10 VData - Random data for password validation.  This data is VSize
7.2.4.2 Format - the data format identifier for this record.  The only
7.2.4.3 AlgId - integer identifier of the encryption algorithm from the
7.2.4.4 Bitlen - Explicit bit length of key
7.2.4.5 Flags - Processing flags needed for decryption
7.2.4.6 ErdData - Encrypted random data is used to store random data that
7.2.4.9 VSize - This size value will always include the 4 bytes of the
7.2.5 Useful Tips
7.2.5.1 Strong Encryption is always applied to a file after compression. The
7.2.5.2 A pseudo-code representation of the encryption process is as follows:
7.2.5.3 The function names and parameter requirements will depend on
7.3 Single Password - Central Directory Encryption
7.3.1 Central Directory Encryption is achieved within the .ZIP format by
7.3.2 Local Header
7.3.3 Encrypting the Central Directory
7.3.4 New fields for Version 2
7.3.7 Decrypting and decompressing the Central Directory is accomplished
7.4 Certificate Processing Method
7.4.1 Certificate Flag Values
7.4.3 Reserved1 - Certificate Decryption Header Reserved1 Data
7.4.4 Reserved2 - Certificate Decryption Header Reserved2 Data Structures
7.5 Certificate Processing - Central Directory Encryption
7.5.1 Central Directory Encryption using Digital Certificates will
7.5.2 The Archive Extra Data record will be used to store the following
7.6 Certificate Processing Differences
7.6.1 The Certificate Processing Method of encryption differs from the
7.6.2 This specification currently assumes digital certificates will follow
7.7 OAEP Processing with Certificate-based Encryption
7.7.1 OAEP stands for Optimal Asymmetric Encryption Padding.  It is a
7.7.2 Support for private keys stored on Smartcards or Tokens introduced
7.7.3 Versions of PKZIP available during initial development of the
8 - The file is Deflated
8.0  Splitting and Spanning ZIP files
8.1 Spanned ZIP files
8.1.1 Spanning is the process of segmenting a ZIP file across
8.2 Split ZIP files
8.2.1 File splitting is a newer derivation of spanning.
8.3  File Naming Differences
8.3.1 A key difference between spanned and split ZIP files is
8.3.2 Sequence ordering for DOS spanned archives uses the DOS
8.3.3 Split ZIP files are typically written to the same location
8.3.4 The .ZIP extension is used on the last segment to support
8.4  Spanned Self-extracting ZIP Files
8.4.1 Spanned ZIP files may be PKSFX Self-extracting ZIP files.
8.5  Capacities and Markers
8.5.1 Capacities for split archives are as follows:
8.5.3 Spanned/Split archives created using PKZIP for Windows
8.5.4 A special spanning marker may also appear in spanned/split
9 - CP/M                     10 - Windows NTFS
9.0 Change Process
9.2 If your application requires new definitions to the
9.3 Periodic revisions to this specification will be published as
97 - WavPack compressed data
A ZIP file MUST have only one "end of central directory record".  Other
A masking value consisting of a unique hexadecimal value will
A.1 Field Definition Structure:
A.2 Field Code  Description
APPENDIX C - Zip64 Extensible Data Sector Mappings
ASCII character.  Each set contains between 0 and 32
Action       Value
Additional processing flags that can be present in the Flags field of both
Additional security MAY be used through the encryption of ZIP file
AlgID     2 bytes  Encryption algorithm identifier
AlgId                 2 bytes    Encryption algorithm ID
All other codes are never sent.
All text is in EBCDIC format unless otherwise specified.
Archive Extra Data record and they should not remain in the first
Archive Extra Data record will also be compressed and encrypted
Atime       4 bytes       File last access time
Atime      8 bytes    File last access time
B.1 Field Definition Structure:
B.2 Field Code  Description
BSize       4 bytes       Uncompressed Block Size
Bit 0: Last Block bit     This bit is set to 1 if this is the last
Bit 10: Currently unused.
Bit 12: Reserved by PKWARE for enhanced compression.
Bit 13: Set when encrypting the Central Directory to indicate
Bit 14: Reserved by PKWARE.
Bit 15: Reserved by PKWARE.
Bit 2  Bit 1
Bit 7: Currently unused.
Bit 8: Currently unused.
Bit 9: Currently unused.
BitLen                2 bytes    Encryption key length
Bitlen    2 bytes  Bit length of encryption key
Bits          Description
Bits 1 and 2 are reserved for use by PKWARE.
Bits 1-2: Block type
Bits of the Flags:
CRC        4 bytes    32-bit CRC for remainder of the block
CSize     2 bytes  Size of total extra block data
CType       2 bytes       Compression type
Central Directory
Central Directory Encryption feature can be found in the section
Central Directory record.  The Archive Extra Data record will also
Central Directory structure cannot rely on the data in the corresponding
Central Header records will be set to 6.3 to indicate the minimum
CertData  TSize-8  Certificate decryption extra field data
Certificate Processing Method under
Code <- 0
Code = Code + CodeIncrement
Code Bits Dist  Code Bits  Dist   Code Bits Distance  Code Bits Distance
CodeIncrement <- 0
ComCRC32      4 bytes     Comment Field CRC32 Checksum
Compressed
Compressed Size       8 bytes    Size of the compressed data
Compression Method    2 bytes    Method used to compress the
Creator       Byte[4]     four-byte Mac creator string
CryptoAPI libraries are all known to work well.
Ctime      8 bytes    File creation time
Currently Version is set to the number 1.  If there is a need
D.1 The ZIP format has historically supported only the original IBM PC character
D.3 Applications may choose to supplement this file name storage through the use
D.5 General purpose bit 11 will not imply any encoding of file content or
D.6 Ed Gordon of the Info-ZIP group has defined a pair of "extra field" records
D.7 Definitions for the record structure of these fields are included above
D.8 The choice of which storage method to use when writing a ZIP file is left
DES
DOS version 2.04g then this value will be zero.  If these
DRAFT or as FINAL status to ensure interoperability. We encourage
Data Size  -  4 bytes
Data Size - 2 bytes
Data Size identifies the number of bytes that follow for this
Data1     Size1    Attribute 1 data
DataN     SizeN    Attribute N data
David Schwaderer and can be found in his excellent
Decryption Header if the Central Directory is encrypted.
Decryption Header.  The fields of this record are identical to
Decryption header record preceding compressed file data.  If the
Detailed descriptions of Extra Fields defined by third
Directory Encryption.  This record will only be present when there
Directory Header for a file.
Directory Structure MAY be stored both compressed and encrypted.
Directory With Respect to the Starting Disk Number will begin the
Directory and may assume the ZIP file is corrupt.  Programs that
Directory is encrypted and that selected fields in the Local Header
Directory.  The value stored in the Total Number of Entries in
Disk Start
Distance Codes
Done
Dynamic Ziv-Lempel-Welch implementations in several respects:
EACRC       4 bytes       CRC value for uncompress block
Each MUST be preceded by a Header ID and Data Size field.  Current
Each element in this list consists of a Recipient
Each header should consist of:
Element data structure as follows:
Encryption Specification for details.  Refer to the
Encryption Specification for information. Refer to the section in
Encryption feature will no longer be able to recognize the Central
Encryption for encrypting metadata
Encryption of the Central Directory does not include encryption of the
Encryption of the Central Directory is done in a manner similar to
End of Central Directory record will store the value 0xFFFFFFFF
End of Central Directory record.
End of Central Directory record. Refer to the section in this document
ErdData   ErdSize  Encrypted Random Data
ErdData.
ErdSize   2 bytes  Size of Encrypted Random Data
Example:
Existing extra fields are defined in the section
Extensible data fields that follows.
Extra             Extra              Extra              Extra
Extra           Extra             Extra               Extra
Extra Data Fields:
Extra Field.
FMEPos      1 byte
Field Name                     Mask Value
Fields having a value of 0xFFFF or 0xFFFFFFFF for the ZIP64 format
Fields to consider in this record are:
File Name field has not changed since the Unicode Path extra field
File header:
File:    APPNOTE.TXT - .ZIP File Format Specification
FileName      variable    full Macintosh filename
FileSeq     2 bytes       Sequence
FileType      Byte[4]     four-byte Mac file type string
FirstVol    1 byte        Volume
Flags                 2 bytes    Encryption flags
Flags     2 bytes  Processing flags
FnLen         Byte        length of FileName
For Each File
For compression factor 1:
For compression factor 2:
For compression factor 3:
For compression factor 4:
Format    2 bytes  Format definition for this record
Gid         2 bytes       File group ID
HSize     2 bytes  Hash size
HSize     This defines the size of a hashed public key
HSize     This defines the size of a hashed public key.
HSize.  REKData is variable and can be calculated
Hash ID identifies the algorithm used to hash the Central Directory
Hash Length           2 bytes    Length of hash data
HashAlg   2 bytes  Hash algorithm identifier
HashAlg   This defines the hash algorithm used to calculate
HashID                2 bytes    Hash algorithm identifier
Header ID  -  2 bytes
Header ID - 2 bytes
Header IDs of 0 thru 31 are reserved for use by PKWARE.
Header records will be set to the value 14 to indicate data was
Header.   ZIP compatible programs that cannot interpret an encrypted
Howard W. Sams & Co. Inc.  The 'magic number' for
IVData    IVSize   Initialization vector for this file
If an archive is in ZIP64 format and the value in
If encrypting the central directory and general purpose bit
If the Flags field in the decryption header contains
Immediately following the local header for a file
Implementations should use 16 rounds and the only mode supported within
Information on WavPack is available at www.wavpack.com.  Please consult
Julian Seward.  Information and source code for this algorithm
Keying methods supported for encryption within this format include
LZMA Compressed Data as shown:
LZMA Properties Size 2 bytes
LZMA SDK defines a 5 byte array that uses 4 bytes to store the dictionary
LZMA Version Information 2 bytes
Last-Character.
LastBitLength <- 0
Length <- Length + Minimum Match Length
Length Codes
Length71    2 bytes       Big Endian
Length72    2 bytes       Big Endian
Length73    2 bytes       Big Endian
Length74    2 bytes       Big Endian
Lit Code    Bits             Dist Code   Bits
Literal codes 286-287 and distance codes 30-31 are
LiteralContextBits
LiteralPosStateBits
Local Header for decompression information.
Local Header for the original file size will be zero.
Local Header will be zero.
MUST be forward slashes '/' as opposed to
Manifest files are outside of the scope of this specification.
Manifest files store application specific information within a file stored
Masking replaces the true content of the fields for a file in the Local
Match Length for the sliding dictionary is 3.  If this tree is
Microsoft.
Minimum segment size = 64K
Model restoration method - sets the method used to restart context
Modifications to a ZIP file may cause different values to be stored for
Mtime       4 bytes       File last modification time
Mtime      8 bytes    File last modification time
NameCRC32     4 bytes     File Name Field CRC32 Checksum
NewCRC    4 bytes  32-bit CRC of the resulting file
NewSize   4 bytes  Size of the resulting file
Note:  Bits 1 and 2 are undefined if the compression
Note: Some fields are stored in Big Endian format.
Note: all fields are stored in Intel low-byte/high-byte
Note: all fields stored in Intel low-byte/high-byte order.
Note: some fields stored in Big Endian format.  All text is
Number     4 bytes    Number of the disk on which
Offset     8 bytes    Offset of local header record
Offset of the start of the central directory on the
OldCRC    4 bytes  32-bit CRC of the file to be patched
OldSize   4 bytes  Size of the file about to be patched
OpenVMS Extra Field Rules:
Original
Original   Size       8 bytes    Original uncompressed size
PKWARE Proprietary Technology into Your Product" for
PKWARE Proprietary Technology into Your Product" for more
PKWARE Proprietary Technology into Your Product" for more information'.
PKWARE Proprietary Technology into Your Product" for more information.
PKWARE does not guarantee the accuracy of any published
PKWARE encryption defined in this format.  Additional data
PKWARE would like to extend special thanks to Robert Mahoney for
PKZIP prior to 2.0 used a 2 byte CRC check; a 1 byte CRC check is
PadVal        Short       Initial padding value
Padding       variable    filled with NULL characters
Page 437 or UTF-8.
PosStateBits
Product" for more information.
Programs supporting earlier versions of this specification can
Properties Header are as follows:
Proprietary Technology into Your Product" for more
Proprietary Technology into Your Product" for more information.
RCount    4 bytes  Number of recipients.
RCount    This defines the number intended recipients whose
RCount   This defines the number intended recipients whose
REHData   HSize    Hash of recipients public key
REHData   Hashed public key for this recipient.
REHData field + REKData field.  REHData is defined by
REKData   Simple Key Blob.  The format of this data structure
REList    This is a variable length of list of recipient data.
RESize    2 bytes  Size of REHData + REKData
RESize    This defines the size of an individual REList
Reaction     Value
Refer to the LZMA documentation for a more detailed explanation of
Refer to the section describing the Strong Encryption
Refer to the section in this document entitled "Incorporating
Refer to the section in this document entitled "Incorporating PKWARE
Relative Header
Reserved   4 bytes    Reserved for future use
Reserved1 4 bytes  Reserved certificate processing data
Reversed     Order     Original
SHOULD be placed after the local header and before the file
SHOULD be placed the compressed or stored data for the file.
SRList    This is a variable length list of the hashed
SRList is determined using RCount * HSize.
See the section describing the Strong Encryption Specification
Segment 1   = filename.z01
Segment n   = filename.zip
Shannon-Fano trees were used.
Signature record will be neither compressed nor encrypted.
Single Password Symmetric Encryption Method as follows.  Instead
Size        4 bytes       Size for the following data block
Size       2 bytes    Size of this "extra" block
Size       8 bytes    Original uncompressed file size
Size       8 bytes    Size of compressed data
Size      4 bytes  Size of remaining decryption header data
Size = SizeOfFixedFields + SizeOfVariableData - 12.
Size of the Central Directory field in the End of Central
Specification defines Version 2 of this record structure.
Specification for details on retrieving the encrypted file name.
Specification for details on the version 2 format for
Splitting follows the same segmentation process as
Start of the Central Directory field in the Zip64 End of Central
Status: Final - replaces version 6.3.3
Stores the UTF-8 version of the file comment as stored in the
Stores the UTF-8 version of the file name field as stored in the
Strong Encryption Specification for information. Refer to the section
Structure data.  The format of this data record is identical to the
Subcode71   2 bytes       Enote type code
Subcode72   2 bytes       Unit type code
Subcode73   2 bytes       Volume1 type code
Subcode74   2 bytes       FirstVol file sequence
Support for LZMA within the ZIP format is defined as follows:
Support for OAEP key wrapping MUST only be used for
TData     TSize    Data
TData     TSize    Data about the store
TData     TSize    Signature Data
TData:
TSize         Short       size of Sig + PadVal + Padding
TSize         Short       total data size for this block
TSize       2 bytes       Size for the following data block
TSize      2 bytes    Size of the total "extra" block
TSize     2 bytes    Size for the following data block
TSize     2 bytes   Size for the following data block
TSize     2 bytes  Size of data that follows
TSize     2 bytes  Size of the store data
TSize     2 bytes  Size of the total "extra" block
Tag         4 bytes       EBCDIC "Z390"
Tag        Size       Description
Tag1       2 bytes    NTFS attribute tag value #1
Tag1       2 bytes    OpenVMS attribute tag value #1
Tag1      2 bytes  Record control attribute 1
TagN       2 bytes    NTFS attribute tag value #N
TagN       2 bytes    OpenVMS attribute tag value #N
TagN      2 bytes  Record control attribute N
The Base 16 value assigned as a masked file name is simply a sequentially
The CRC-32 algorithm was generously contributed by
The Certificate Processing Method for ZIP file encryption
The ComCRC32 is the standard zip CRC32 checksum of the File Comment
The Compressed Size and Original Size values will not include the
The Compression Method accepts the same range of values as the
The Data Size field indicates the size of the following
The Hash Data will contain the hash data for the Central Directory.
The Header ID field indicates the type of data that is in
The Header ID field indicates the type of data that is in the
The Huffman codes are sent as bit lengths and the codes are built as
The Huffman codes should be built as described in the Implode algorithm
The IVData can be completely random data.  If the size of
The NameCRC32 is the standard zip CRC32 checksum of the File Name
The Strong Encryption data structures are:
The UnicodeCom field is the UTF-8 version of the File Comment field
The UnicodeName is the UTF-8 version of the contents of the File Name
The Version Needed to Extract should be set to 62.
The View field specifies ZipIt-internal settings as follows:
The bit lengths for the literal tables are sent first with the number
The comment for this .ZIP file.  ZIP file comment data
The comment for this file.
The compressed data stream can be decrypted as follows:
The data stored in this field should be obtained using the
The data structure used to store certificate data within the section
The date and time are encoded in standard MS-DOS format.
The first byte indicates 3 values in this table.  Decoding the
The following is the general layout of the attributes for the
The following is the layout of a shortened variant of the
The following is the layout of the MVS "extra" block.
The following is the layout of the NTFS attributes
The following is the layout of the OS/2 attributes "extra"
The following is the layout of the OS/400 "extra" block.
The following is the layout of the OpenVMS attributes
The following is the layout of the UNIX "extra" block.
The following is the layout of the ZipIt extra block
The following is the layout of the zip64 extended
The layout of the Zip64 End of Central Directory record for all
The leading fixed size fields within the Version 1 format for this
The length of the comment for this .ZIP file.
The length of this data will vary depending on the algorithm used.
The lengths of the bit length codes are sent packed 3 bits per value
The local-header and central-header versions are identical.
The mapping of the external attributes is
The number of central directory entries on this disk.
The number of the disk on which the central
The number of the disk on which this file begins.  If an
The order of the fields in the zip64 extended
The path stored MUST not contain a drive or
The purpose of this step is to further initialize the encryption
The remaining IDs can be used by third party vendors for
The remaining bits are unused in version 1.0.
The sets are stored at the beginning of the data area for a
The term "stored" as used in the context of this document means the file
The total number of files in the .ZIP file. If an
The value for the Total Number of Entries on the Current Disk will
The variable length data field will contain file type
There are 8 codes in this table for the values 0 thru 7.  Using
These values are identical to the ATR$C_XXXX and ATR$S_XXXX
Third-party Mappings:
This SHOULD be used for storage expansion.  If additional
This algorithm is based on predictive phrase matching on multiple
This descriptor SHOULD be used only when it was not possible to
This document is not intended to provide a treatise on data
This entry in the Local header MUST include BOTH original
This example will show the encoding of a Shannon-Fano tree
This field MAY contain information about each of the certificates
This field MUST contain information about each of the certificates
This field contains the information about which certificate in
This field should be set appropriately to indicate whether
This field will be 0 length in version 1.0.
This format specification supports either password or certificate
This is the offset from the start of the first disk on
This variant is used by ZipIt 1.3.5 and newer for entries of
This would generate the original bit length array of:
Twofish algorithms can be found on the internet.  Consult with the author
Uid         2 bytes       File user ID
UnicodeCom    Variable    UTF-8 version of the entry comment
UnicodeName   Variable    UTF-8 version of the entry File Name
Unit        1 byte        Unit
VCRC32    4 bytes  Standard ZIP CRC32 of password validation data
VCRC32 data and will be greater than 4 bytes.
VData     VSize-4  Password validation data
VData and VCRC32 are stored encrypted and start the
VSize     2 bytes  Size of password validation data
Val  Sorted   Constructed Code      Value     Restored    Length
Value                 Size       Description
Value         Algorithm
Value         Size        Description
Value       Size          Description
Value      Size       Description
Value     Size       Description
Value     Size      Description
Value     Size     Description
VarFields[].
Version       Change Description                        Date
Version   2 bytes  Version of the descriptor
Version 1 or Version 2 format is in use.
Version 2 format.  The Version 2 format is as follows:
Version 5.1 adds support for the following:
Version: 6.3.4
WavPack compression within ZIP files is that all of the bytes of
When FWKCS revises a .ZIP file central directory to add
When the Central Directory Encryption feature is enabled for a
With the introduction of the Central Directory Encryption
ZIP 64 "extra" block for extended tape operations.
ZIP compatible application programs.
ZIP file. This specification does not provide any information or guidance on
ZIP files is CBC.  Information and source code for both Blowfish and
ZIP files not using Central Directory Encryption should operate as
ZIP format version supporting this feature.
ZIP implementations as a marker for the Data Descriptor
Zip64 End of Central Directory record will always be present.
ZipIt extra block for Macintosh used only for directory
[LZMA compressed data for file 1]
[LZMA compressed data segment for file 1]
[LZMA properties header for file 1]
[archive decryption header]
[archive extra data record]
[central directory header 1]
[central directory header n]
[data descriptor 1]
[data descriptor n]
[digital signature]
[encryption header 1]
[encryption header file 1]
[encryption header n]
[end of central directory record]
[file data 1]
[file data n]
[file data][data descriptor] repeats for each file in the
[local file header 1]
[local file header n]
[local header file 1]
[local header file 2]
[zip64 end of central directory locator]
[zip64 end of central directory record]
a 4 byte variable record length control field precedes each
a ZIP file. Application specific information that cannot be
a Zip64 extended information record is created.
a bit length of zero do not participate in the tree construction.  The
a conflict with this OAEP logic.  Most card and token products do
a password or an X.509v3 digital certificate to encrypt each file.
a sliding dictionary of up to 32K with secondary compression
a. field length including length             2 bytes
accessed by the subject programs and/or the algorithms used by
accompanied by a corresponding "central directory header" record within
account for a discrepancy found in the implementation of the RC2
accurate as delivered.  Any risk of damage due to any possible
acquiring such a license.
add          1
add this value to Length.
algorithm described elsewhere in this document.
algorithm developed and maintained by Igor Pavlov.  It is a derivative
algorithm for information on terms or restrictions on use.
algorithm in the cryptographic library on Windows XP SP1 and all
algorithms
algorithms are available from either commercial or open source
algorithms use a block size of 8.  Two IDs are defined for RC2 to
allowed to decrypt encrypted files.  This field should only appear
along with the Central Directory data structure.
although use of a file extension is not required.  Use of the
and Ctime values MAY be used on any WIN32 system.)
and Twofish algorithms.  These are symmetric block ciphers developed
and UNIX file systems etc.  If input came from standard
and are subject to name collisions if the spanned name
and compressed file size fields. If encrypting the
and encrypting the central directory data structure to reduce information
and immediately follows the last byte of compressed data.
and implementers should include the EOS marker whenever possible.
and is covered under U.S. Patents and Patents Pending. The use or
and is supported by PKCS #1.  Versions 5.0 and 6.0 of this specification
and its use is recommended only for situations with
and the Zip64 End of Central Directory records are not encrypted.  Access
and the compressed data size must be known
and to help avoid any ambiguity should it arise in the future due
and to provide better support for streamed file processing.
and using the next 2 bytes as the remaining size.  See
and will precede the LZMA compressed file data segment.  The location
and/or the file formats created or accessed by the subject
application developers that use and benefit from this format
application processing of the files inside the ZIP files.
applications.
archive is in ZIP64 format and the value in this
archive is in ZIP64 format and the value in this field
archive is in ZIP64 format and the value in this field is
archives if the spanning or splitting process starts but
archives is reduced.  Extra Data fields that may contain confidential
are advised to experiment with their data to determine which of the
are compatible with MS-DOS and can be read by PKZIP for
are identical. This block must be present if the file is
are masked to hide their actual value.
as documented within the LZMA SDK.
as follows.
as the value for the Total Number of Entries in the Central
as well as password management and support issues make certificate
ask          0
assign the last value placed on the output stream to
at any time.
attempt streaming access using Local Headers will see invalid
attribute information.  If the external file attributes
attributes - compressed
available algorithms provides the best compression for their needs.
available at http://www.pkware.com/appnote.
available at:
avoided by ensuring the position of the signature
aware that ZIP files may be encountered with or without this
b. field code                                2 bytes
backward compatibility when sending ZIP files to be opened by
backwards slashes '\' for compatibility with Amiga
based encryption a more secure and scalable option.  Industry
be 0.  These records will no longer support random access when
be able to extract the file.  If multiple features are
be at least 51. See the section describing the Strong
be at least 61.  This means OAEP key wrapping is not
be conditionally present.  The LZMA Compressed Data Segment
be eliminated. PKWARE therefore expressly disclaims any warranty
be found.  If an archive is in ZIP64 format and the value
be in the corresponding 4 byte zip64 end of central
be in the same order that files appear in the .ZIP file.
be omitted
be stored.  This value will be sequentially incremented for each
be written to the Central Directory where they can be encrypted.  This
been provided for DOS formatted floppy diskettes.
below.
bits up to the byte boundary.  An example is a 2 byte sample that
block size.  VCRC32 is a checksum value of VData.
book "C Programmers Guide to NetBIOS" published by
break from loop
by Bruce Schneier.  Blowfish supports using a variable length key from
by masking key values that are replicated in the unencrypted Local
by subtracting the size of the previous fields from TSize.  If both
by the Deflate extractor.
byte of the field known as the Offset of Start of Central
byte values.
byte will store the minor number.
bytes immediately preceding the compressed data.  These bytes are
bytes:
c. data                                      x bytes
can be found on the internet.
can be found on the internet. Consult with the author of this
case State of
central directory               4 bytes
central directory               8 bytes
central directory and bit 13 of the general purpose bit
central directory entry for that file's uncompressed
central directory on this disk  2 bytes
central directory on this disk  8 bytes
certificate processing method set a value of 61 into the
certificate processing. When encrypting or compressing the Central
certificates.  Implementation of this Certificate Processing Method
changed by the author over time.  The data layout in version 4.3 of the
changes affecting the published format specification will be
character and block device nodes.  Since device nodes
characteristics stored within the records and fields defined by this
codes are sent in the following compressed format:
codes are then used to decode the bit lengths for the literal and
collisions occur and each segment can reuse the original
comments and feedback that may help improve clarity or content.
committed to ensuring the interoperability of the .ZIP file
compatibility with older programs is required.
compatible.  Software can use this information to determine
components pertaining to either strong encryption or patching requires
compressed Shannon-Fano data.  The compressed data stream can be
compressed and then stored in its entirety within this
compressed block in the data.
compressed file size will include the bytes of the decryption
compressed file. The number of trees stored is defined by bit 2 in
compressed header data.  The compressed data stream can be
compressed size                 0
compressed size                 4 bytes
compressed using LZMA.
compressed with Huffman codes.  There are 19 bit length codes:
compression method              0
compression method              2 bytes
compression method.
compression method.)
computing platforms that are running a ZIP program.
considered to be in the final form for that version of the document
constants which are defined in ATR.H under OpenVMS C.  Neither
contain either method and should provide support for reading data in
contain no content MUST not include file data.
containing the storage information necessary for maintaining the files
contains the signature data. This field can appear multiple
content changes to this document.  Versions of this document and
contribution towards the development of PKWARE's traditional
control characters in the total length of the record. This
copy C to the output stream.
copy Len+3 bytes from this position to the output stream.
copy Length characters from this position to the output
copy character to the output stream
copy character to the output stream.
copy count bytes data block
copy length characters from this position to the output
correct values are put in the data descriptor and
corrections
corresponding 8 byte zip64 end of central
corresponding 8 byte zip64 extended information extra field.
corresponding field in the Central Header.
crc-32                          0
crc-32                          4 bytes
creating ZIP files.  Information is provided on the records and
cryptographically random data is used.  The key material is then
data block that follows.
data block type.
data block. Programs can use this value to skip to the
data descriptor immediately following the compressed
data encoded as:
data files compressed using PPMd if this value is set.
data ineffective.
data of the Central Directory Signature which is compressed or
data sector field following either a V1 or V2 version of this
data should not be stored within the Local Header.  The value set into
data structure and will be located immediately after the Archive
data structures required for implementing interoperable data
data.
data. The series of [local file header][encryption header]
decode distance from input stream
decode literal character from input stream
decoding the Shannon-Fano encoded data.  How to parse the
decryption header.  The decryption header is known as the Archive
decryption keys for additional security.
defined by this format and no specific implementation guidance is
defined in APPENDIX C.
defined in REHData.
defines proposed revisions to this specification which may consist
defines the following additional data fields:
definitions
deflating.
delete       2
derive keys.  File session keys are derived from a master
described in the implode algorithm.  The bit lengths themselves are
describing the Strong Encryption Specification. The Digital
descriptors are used to facilitate ZIP file streaming.
design currently does not support streaming.  Information in the End of
design.
determined using the Start of Central Directory field in the Zip64
device number.
digital certificates.
digital signatures.  Individual files MAY be signed with one or more
directory data structure.
directory end record. If an archive is in ZIP64 format
directory field.
directory record                8 bytes
directory record and these three fields should not
directory record field is set to 0xFFFF or 0xFFFFFFFF.
directory record" should be the size of the remaining
directory record.
directory records MAY be compressed.
directory starts. If an archive is in ZIP64 format
directory with respect to
disk number start               2 bytes
disk on which the central directory starts. If an
disk when splitting or spanning an archive.
distance codes representing distances from 1 thru 32k as described
distance tables.
distance values themselves will be between 0 and the sliding
distinct algorithms.  The first algorithm compresses repeated
distinct algorithms.  The first algorithm compresses repeated byte
distributors.  Readily available cryptographic toolkits make
do
documented record definitions.
each data area.  Every program SHOULD verify that its
each file.  SHA1 is used to calculate hash data used to
earlier versions of Windows.  It is recommended that zero length files
easier referencing of this APPNOTE
efforts and support are defining and moving towards more advanced
either case when reading ZIP files to ensure compatibility.
either format. Use of general purpose bit 11 reduces storage requirements
element in this list is HSize.  The total size of
element.  This value is the combined size of the
encountered.
encrypted are:
encrypted or digitally signed independent of how other data files in the
encrypted.
encrypting the Central Directory structure.  This encapsulates the metadata
encrypting the Central Directory.
encryption algorithms operates similarly to the traditional
encryption algorithms.  These algorithms can be used with either
encryption and certificate encryption.  Files encrypted with both
encryption applied to the Central Directory.
encryption is used with no certificate encryption or digital
encryption key data. Individual security requirements may dictate
encryption keys.
encryption principles or theory.  Its purpose is to document the
encryption to authenticated public/private key encryption.
encryption within the .ZIP format.  It is strongly recommended that
encryption.
end case
end decrypt_byte
end loop
end of central directory record 8 bytes
end the current segment and write the header at the start
end update_keys
endif
entitled "Incorporating PKWARE Proprietary Technology into Your
entries. This variant is used by ZipIt 1.3.5 and newer to
example is the META-INF/MANIFEST.MF file used in ZIP formatted
exclusive property of PKWARE.  Use of the information contained in this
extended information extra field.
extension .ZIPX is also recognized and MAY be used for ZIP files.
external file attributes        4 bytes
extra field length              2 bytes
extra field length              4 bytes
extract the file without regard to Central Directory Encryption. The fields
fail         3
feature having the highest value. New features or feature
feature will assume the encryption method applied to files matches the
field but does not update the UTF-8 Comment extra field.  If the CRC
field in the Zip64 End of Central Directory record.  See the
field in the central directory header.  This is used to verify that
field in the header.  This is used to verify that the header
field is set to zero in the local header and the correct
field is set to zero.
field should not exceed 64K in size.
fields respectively.  The combined length of any
fields that describe what a ZIP file is.
file MAY span multiple volumes or it MAY be split into user-defined
file as a means for storing additional information.  One
file comment length             2 bytes
file comment storage
file containing only an "end of central directory record" is considered an
file header" record for that file.  Each "local file header" MUST be
file in the archive. See the section on the Strong Encryption
file length with a measured value.
file name characters to only those within the original MS-DOS range of values
file name length                2 bytes
file name length field
file type required by the defining application process.  It is
file's size exceeds 0xFFFFFFFF.   However ZIP64 format may be
file. The local-header and central-header versions are identical.
files MUST include extraction code for a target platform within
files may be signed with. When the Central Directory Encryption
first central directory record and will be ignored in any
flag in both local and central header records.  Both bits set
followed by 16 bytes containing the uncompressed file's
followed immediately by the local header signature for
following change.
following range
following:
for Imploding are either 64 or 256 entries in size.
for Macintosh. The local-header and central-header versions
for Strong Encryption
for additional information regarding RC2 corrections.
for details on this data structure.
for details.  Refer to the section in this document entitled
for each REList element using RESize and HSize.
for encryption. This field currently supports
for file name data by not requiring additional "extra field" data for
for greater storage efficiency.  Information on the
for information on using manifest files and for any additional profile
for more information applicable to use of Version 2 of this
for more information.
for storing UTF-8 data in the standard file name and comment fields is
for storing data within a ZIP file in an encoding other than IBM Code
for the data descriptor record.  Implementers should be
for using this algorithm are as follows:
form of encryption is considered weak by today's standards
form.
format is as follows:
format is used since each segment will reside on the same
format through periodic publication and maintenance of this
format. The first byte of the tree data represents the number of
from Huffman/Shannon-Fano codes.
from other documents and standards
function.  The version of the Simple Key Blob
further.
future version of this APPNOTE.  This new record is intended to
general purpose bit flag        2 bytes
general purpose flag word; a 0 bit indicates a 4K dictionary
generation techniques in combination with the same CRC-32 algorithm
greater using the character encoding form defined by the UTF-8 storage
header MUST precede the encrypted data segment.
header record preceding compressed file data are:
header records must never be split across a segment boundary.
header1+data1 + header2+data2 . . .
hide their actual values.  See the section describing
i <- i - 1
identify the host system on which the attributes are
if 8K dictionary size
if Length = 63 + Minimum Match Length
if Literal Shannon-Fano tree is present
if data descriptor exists
if literal = end of block
if stored block
if they are found within a ZIP file.
if this bit is not zero then
ignore       2
illustrated below.  These values are stored in Intel low-byte/high-byte
immediately after where the previous code at the smaller
immediately following the Local Header for the file.  If a standard
implementation in a product of certain technological aspects set
implementation of the encryption features straight-forward.
implemented in version 6.2 as part of the Strong Encryption
implemented in versions of this specification preceding
implemented using higher version numbers than the last
in EBCDIC format unless otherwise specified.
in both the local header and the central directory header.  The Version
in length and VSize must be a multiple of the encryption
in the Local Header will be zero.
in the archive extra data record. This field is not required and
in the central directory.  If an archive is in ZIP64 format
in the corresponding 8 byte ZIP64 extended information
in the header should be used instead.
in the past.
in the same manner as decrypting and decompressing a file.
in the section describing the
in the section on 3rd party mappings for "extra field" records.  These
in this document entitled "Incorporating PKWARE Proprietary Technology
in this document to identify files in this format.
inaccurate information is assumed by the user of the information.
include the entire executable program.
include:
included in the size of the Central Directory.  The data of the
inclusion into future versions of this specification.
incremented value for each file starting with 1 for the first file.
indicate that both the header File Name and Comment fields are UTF-8
indicated by setting the compression method field to a value of 97
individual file
information "extra" block. If one of the size or
information for each file.  Central Directory Encryption need not be
information leakage by encrypting the Central Directory structure and
information needs to be stored within a ZIP file for special
information on using ZIP within an application.
information that must be included with the files placed into
information.
information.  Additional data may be added in future versions.
initialized using the supplied encryption password.  After each byte
initializing the encryption keys.
intended mode of operation for all versions beginning with 6.1.
internal file attributes        2 bytes
interoperability between users within both PKI and non-PKI
interoperability with Smartcard and USB Token certificate storage
interoperable container. No specific use or application need is
interoperable file storage and transfer format.  Since its
interpreted as follows:
into Your Product" for more information.
into the ZIP file and it may include a defined directory path.
introduction of the Central Directory Encryption feature
is applied to this area at this time.  Confidential information
is copied into the ZIP file uncompressed.
is given explicitly.
is identical to that defined in the Microsoft
is intended.
is located by skipping the first 4 bytes of this field
is not stored MacBinary-encoded.
is outside the scope of this specification.
is stored unsecured.  No encryption or data authentication
is used to generate a file session key for encrypting
is wrapped using the public key of each recipient that will need
it must include an identifying header block consisting of the
it should be complemented with zero's or truncated as
keys.  This is commonly applied in cryptographic key-wrapping techniques
know how to create a split archive.
known type.
last mod file date              0
last mod file date              2 bytes
last mod file time              0
last mod file time              2 bytes
last.
leakage.   Information leakage can occur in legacy ZIP applications
length word. Remaining data in block is the stored
let Last-Character <- 0.
let State <- 0
let State <- 0.
let State <- 1.
let State <- 3.
let V <- C.
ll.76-77: "The MD5 algorithm is being placed in the
local header data.  This data is the output from WavPack compression
local header is not in ZIP64 format and general purpose
local header is not in ZIP64 format and general purpose bit
local header.  The correct values are put in the
local unsigned short temp
located in the first record of the Central Directory for digital
logical record indicating the length of the record. The
loop for i <- 0 to 11
loop until done
loop until end of block code sent
loop while i >= 0
low security needs or for compatibility with older .ZIP
mappings of Header ID values supported in this field are as
mark the end of the compressed data stream.
maximum code size is 13 bits.  Shrinking differs from conventional
may be omitted
may not be backward compatible so this extra field should not be
metadata by encrypting the Central Directory does not protect the data within
metadata stored within the Central Directory. See the section on the
method is any other.
methods can safely be decrypted using the password methods documented.
methods which do not support the OAEP strengthening standard.
minus 1.  The remaining bytes represent the Shannon-Fano tree
mode.  The block size used for AES encryption is 16.  All other block
more information.
most often used for processing .ZIP files.  Additional metadata is stored for
multiple files.
multiple removable media. This support has typically only
must be decrypted before they can be extracted to their original
n should be a decimal value.
name of the original file stored.  This name is NOT NULL
name stored in the Local Header will not be the actual file name.
needed to extract and version made by fields use the same values as are
needs through extra data fields that MAY be defined for custom
never be more than one "extra" block of type 0x000c in a particular
never used but participate in the huffman construction.
new fields defining Version 2 of this record.
non-OAEP key wrapping is used.  This affects certificate encryption
none         0
not automatically increased when codes larger than the current
not be exposed should not be stored in the Local Header and should only
not desirable.  A common case for this alternate method is if backward
not of interest.
not support the additional strengthening applied to OAEP key-wrapped
now represent the Shannon-Fano encoding tree that can be used for
number of the disk with the
number of this disk             2 bytes
number of this disk             4 bytes
number.
numbered document is published.  Newer versions of this format
of 0xffffffff) and the value is post-conditioned by
of Central Directory record.  The ZIP file comment data is never
of Data Descriptor records
of LZ77 that utilizes Markov chains and a range coder.  Information and
of LZMA compressed data segment within the ZIP format will be as shown:
of central directory locator record MUST reside on the same
of entries sent described by the 5 bits sent earlier.  There are up
of information to be stored in the 'extra' field in .ZIP
of size 8.  Notice that the actual Shannon-Fano trees used
of the Archive Decryption Header is determined by the value in the
of the Central Directory Encryption Feature implemented as part of
of the LZMA SDK was used to compress a file.  The first byte will
of the ZIP format specification.  This record MAY be used in support
of the ZIP format specification.  This record exists in support
of the data area defining the encryption header for that file.  The
of the next segment.  The central directory may span segment
of the paths and comments being zipped up are already in UTF-8. It is
of the signing process.
of these algorithms for information on terms or restrictions on use.
of these values will ever be zero.
offset fields in the Local or Central directory
offset of start of central
on source or target encoding that may further assist applications with file
on the fields used in the Archive Decryption Header record.
one of the documented compression algorithms MUST be used.  Implementors
only appear if the corresponding Local or Central
only be uncompressed by other versions of PKZIP that
only the following value for SHA-1
open source WavPack audio compression utility developed by David Bryant.
operate in a manner similar to that of Single Password Central
optionally adds and uses an extra field to support the
or PKZIP Explorer will include a special spanning
or distribution of this document in whole or in part without prior
or in combination. Encryption MAY be applied to individual files.
or signing the files within a ZIP file.  When only password
order contexts.  Information and source code for this algorithm
order of the original lengths stored in the file.
order.
other file characteristics about the file being compressed must be
other record.
otherwise
otherwise if C is equal to DLE then
otherwise if C is zero then
otherwise if this bit is zero then
otherwise it will appear in the first central directory record.
otherwise specified in this document for a specific data element.
output Temp
output stream.
parameters
party mappings will be documented as information on
password based encryption.
password.  Values defining character encoding for file content or
passwords and public/private keys.  Either MAY be used individually
patch        3
patented proprietary technology of PKWARE and as such require a
permissible for any of the above algorithms to be used independent
permitted only through reference to this document.  Any reproduction
placed into a ZIP file.  Each record type MUST be identified using a header
placed within the same ZIP file as files to which this information
placing all pieces onto local or non-removable locations
possible values are from 1MB to 256MB inclusive
preserves all versions of AV through PKZIP version 2.04g.
probabilistic decompression as follows:
program SHOULD place a unique signature of at least two bytes in
programs and processes that read and write files in the ZIP format
programs and/or the algorithms used by the subject programs is
programs enforce this and may be unable to decompress
programs storing data in this field:
proprietary usage.
provide opportunity for review and comment.
provided. This document provides details on the storage format for
public domain for review and possible adoption as a
public keys for each intended recipient.  Each
public keys were used for encryption.  This defines
public keys were used for encryption.  This identifies
publication STATUS of FINAL. DRAFT versions are published periodically
published value to avoid conflict.
purpose bit 11.  Examples of the intended usage for this field is to store
purposes only and are the property of their respective owners.
purposes.  Extra data definitions MUST NOT conflict with existing
quickly reading the central directory.  The segment number
range 1 - 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
rapid creation of an enhanced contents_signature:
re-create the original file as follows:
read 1 bit from input stream.
read 1 bit from the input stream.
read 8 bits from input stream.
read 8 bits from the input stream into C.
read a character into C
read and decode character using Literal Shannon-Fano tree.
read count and 1's compliment of count
read crc and sizes
read from the input stream to the next bit size.  No
read header from input stream.
recommended that you combine X.509 digital signing with encryption
record MUST be set to binary zeros.  See the section on the Strong
record and should not include the leading 12 bytes.
record are as shown:
record length control field is stored in little-endian byte
record remain unchanged.  The record signature for both Version 1
record when digital certificates are used for either encrypting
record will appear before the start of the actual Central Directory
record.
record.  Conflict in this alternate assignment can be
record.  To ensure identification of this special purpose data
records can be used for cases when the general purpose bit 11 method
records defined in this specification MAY be used as needed to support
redundancy in the Local Header for each file.  The process of concealing
referenced within this document appear for identification
relative offset of local header 4 bytes
relative offset of the zip64
remaining property data.  Typically this size should be determined by
removable media) or "self-extracting".  Self-extracting ZIP
represented as a string whose
required to support traditional PKWARE encryption.  This
required values for the decompressor as defined by the LZMA SDK.
requirements on how this field should be used.
requires supporting logic for key access and management.  This logic
requires the appropriate password or private key for decryption prior to
requiring that it also be encrypted.  Early implementations of this
restrictions on use.
reviewed by the ZIP File Specification Committee for possible
revision.  Although this format was originally designed with a
rounds and the only mode supported within ZIP files is CBC. Twofish
same ZIP file are archived.
same algorithm used for encrypting the file contents.
save some optional Mac-specific information about directories.
section in this document entitled "Incorporating PKWARE
section on the Strong Encryption Specification for information
security solutions built around X.509v3 digital certificates and
segment of a split PKSFX archive must be large enough to
segment sizes should be the same with the exception of the
segment sizes. All values MUST be stored in little-endian byte order unless
segment to a unique removable medium and instead supports
selected data values in the Local Header are masked to
sequences using a sliding dictionary.  The second algorithm is
serves only to aid archive modifications by preserving public
session key generated from the user-supplied password.
set the version needed to extract value to at least
should be created.
should be provided.
should be split across segments.
should be the high-order word/byte of the CRC for the file being
should not be masked.
should not be stored in this section.
signature as the first 4 bytes of the first segment of
signature marking data descriptors and SHOULD account for
signature that identifies the record type.  Signature values begin with the
signature value marking the data descriptor record.  When
signature will be replaced with the temporary spanning
signature.
single signature.
size and uncompressed size are set to zero in the
size in little-endian order. This is preceded by a single packed byte as
size of data                    2 bytes
size of the central directory   4 bytes
size of the central directory   8 bytes
size of zip64 end of central
size will be set into the
size. The dictionary size used can be determined by bit 1 in the
skip         1
skip bits until byte aligned
source code for this algorithm can be found on the internet.  Consult
specific data.  Currently the only values allowed are
specification are covered under patents and pending patent applications.
specification are intended to remain interoperable with with all prior
specification should be considered as open for periodic review and
specification supports compressing the Central Directory without
specification will no longer support OAEP when encrypting using
specification.  The Unicode Standard is published by the The Unicode
specification.  We trust that all .ZIP compatible vendors and
specification. Reference implementations for many of these
standard."
start of the central directory  2 bytes
start of the central directory  4 bytes
start of the output stream is filled with zeros).
start of the zip64 end of
storage
storage per file to write file name and/or file comment fields.
storage requirements for individual ZIP files.
store the major version number of the LZMA SDK and the second
stored MacBinary-encoded and it should not be used if the file
stored encrypted.  The information exposed consists of file
stored in standard ZIP storage format.
stored using the defined ZIP storage records SHOULD be stored
stream from the first algorithm and applies a probabilistic
stream of encrypted data for a file.
stream.
stream.  The compressed data stream can be interpreted for the
strengthening technique used for small encoded items such as decryption
strong algorithms.
strong encryption or patching requires a license from PKWARE.
structure.  There will only ever be one "block" of data in
structures are added to support the processing needs of the
subject to change without notice.
subject to the terms and conditions herein.
subtracting the size of the previous fields from TSize.  If both the
suggesting the extension .ZIP for this software.
suitable for streaming access and the options for data recovery of damaged
supplied is correct or not.
supported at this time is 0x02 as defined by
taking the one's complement of the CRC residual.
terminated.  Its size can be determined by checking TSize -
that all pieces of a spanned ZIP file have the same name.
that can be used to store UTF-8 file name and file comment fields.  These
that of file encryption.  The encrypted data is preceded by a
that requires this information.  A manifest file MAY be of any
that the file is apparently an ASCII or text file.  If not
that the information contained in the associated materials relating
that this data be omitted to deter information exposure.
the "LZMA Version Information" field.
the Central Directory on this Disk field will be 0.  The actual
the Compression Method and Compressed Size fields are not yet masked.
the File Comment field in the header should be used instead.
the LZMA compression algorithm.  It is possible that this layout may be
the Length value.
the Local Header.  To avoid information leakage from the exposed metadata
the PKCS#7 store was used to sign a particular file. It also
the PKCS#7 store was used to sign the central directory structure.
the Strong Encryption Specification as described in this document.
the Strong Encryption Specification for details.  Refer
the Strong Encryption Specification)
the Version needed to extract field should be the correct value needed to
the ZIP file.
the algorithm to obtain the Shannon-Fano codes produces:
the block and the Huffman codes used in the data block.  The header
the central directory           2 bytes
the central directory section of the ZIP file.
the choice of the cryptographic toolkit selected.  Almost any
the comment field has not changed since the Unicode Comment extra field
the data descriptor record will immediately follow the
the decryption header preceding each encrypted file.  The location
the explanation under the Certificate Processing Method
the file the compressed and uncompressed sizes will be 8
the filename and comment fields for this file
the first Shannon-Fano tree represents the encoding of the
the first element of the array that contains the following fields:
the first file in the archive.
the first segment must be named filename.exe.  The first
the following data block.
the format defined in the section of this document
the format in DRAFT form may be subject to modification prior to
the increased size should be read from the input stream
the line record format for text files etc.
the number of elements in the REList field defined below.
the number of elements in the SRList.
the original "linked to" file names for hard or symbolic
the output stream is filled with zeros).
the public key hash of each public key used
the randomly generated data does not match the block size
the sample data should be compressed.  This includes any unused
the specific format features a ZIP program MUST support to
the starting disk number        4 bytes
the starting disk number        8 bytes
the use of manifest files within ZIP files.  Refer to the application developer
the version of the SDK.  This size field is included as a convenience
the zip64 extended information extra field is present for
then a 4K sliding dictionary was used.
then the ErdData field must be decrypted using AlgId.
these data structures is made available to PKWARE.
these fields are set to zero in the local header and the
these fields.
third party data.
this UTF-8 Path Extra Field should be ignored and the File Name field
this data record is determined using the Start of Central Directory
this data structure.
this document entitled "Incorporating PKWARE Proprietary Technology
this file starts
this record. Refer to the section in this document entitled
this value.  This means values of 61 may be found on files encrypted
those at which compression was started for this data.
through exposure of information about a file even though that file is
to 286 literal characters; the first 256 represent the respective 8
to add authentication and non-repudiation.
to changes in this compression algorithm.
to decompress the LZMA compressed Data.  This data is set by the
to decrypt the file using their corresponding private key.
to extract.
to provide notification to the ZIP community of pending changes and to
to the implementation.  Developers should expect that a ZIP file may
to the section in this document entitled "Incorporating
to the subject programs and/or the format of the files created or
to view data on files within a ZIP file with an encrypted Central Directory
toolkit supporting the reference implementations for each
total number of disks           4 bytes
total number of entries in
total number of entries in the
trademarks of Frederick W. Kantor.
tree is used to compress any data not compressed by the sliding
uncompressed size               0
uncompressed size               4 bytes
uncompressed size in the Local Header will be zero.
under the Certificate Processing Method for details on
unused bits will be set to 0 on extraction regardless of their original
upper 6 bits of the Distance value.
use the current code size.  The nodes that are cleared
used for data compressed using the Deflate algorithm.
used for every ZIP file.  Its use is recommended for greater security.
used if the version is not recognized.
used in PKZIP and described elsewhere in this document.
used in encryption processing and it can be used to identify who is
used on versions after 2.0.  This can be used to test if the password
used to encode the file.  The value/10 indicates the major
used to hash the Central Directory for signing should be used.
used to store the following fields:
used when generating a Master Session Key using
uses only 12 bits for the sample data with 4 unused bits.  If only
using multiple Shannon-Fano trees.
using the extensible Extra Field convention defined in this
using the following algorithm:
value allowed at this time is the integer value 2.
value allowed at this time is the integer value 3.
value from 001 - nnn.
value is provided for mainframe data transfer support.
value is put in the data descriptor and in the central
value to the output stream.
values are from 2 to 16 inclusive
values for HashID are:
values for UTF-8 file name and
values for both the HashID and Hash Length will be 0.  Possible
values will be stored in the equivalent fields of the Zip64
variable length Shannon-Fano values from the data stream is beyond
variable length data is stored.  Link files will have the
version 2.70 or greater)
version made by                 2 bytes
version needed to extract       2 bytes
version needed to extract field for a file.  This indicates that
version needed to extract for BZIP2 compression to be 50
versions of PKZIP recognize this bit for any
versions starting with 6.2 of this specification will follow the
versions whenever technically possible.
volume label to determine segment numbers.  Volume labels
was created.  This can happen if a utility changes the File Comment
was created.  This can happen if a utility renames the File Name but
were designed to support OAEP key-wrapping for certificate-based
when it should have been 46.
when the archive contents are viewed in ZipIt.
where xxx is the segment number written as a decimal
which includes a carryless rangecoder developed by Dmitry Subbotin.
while a 1 bit indicates an 8K dictionary.
while not last block
will be placed in front of the file data and the value of the
will consist of an LZMA Properties Header followed by the
will each be preceded by the above TagX & SizeX values.
will share and support this commitment to interoperability.
with the author of this algorithm for information on terms and
with the author of this algorithm for information on terms or
within the Local Header targeted for masking when the Central Directory is
within the ZIP file to determine the use for which it
within the ZIP file.  This manifest file SHOULD be the first file in the
within the file.
wrapped using standard key-wrapping techniques.  This key material
writing ZIP files SHOULD rely on internal record signatures described
written permission from PKWARE is strictly prohibited.
you have a good understanding of data encryption before reading
your request to zipformat@pkware.com.  All submissions will be
zip64 end of central dir
zip64 end of central dir locator
zip64 end of central directory field.
zip64 end of central directory record MUST also be set.
zip64 end of central directory record. Version 1 was
zipformat@pkware.com
